Mana-System:

You not only have a spell deck, containing 40 spell cards, but also a Mana Crystal Deck, containing 15 Mana Crystals.

-> The crystals produce Mana, colored one.
In Battle Mages, there are 4 colors:


Blue
-> Spells,  Carddraw, creatures with bounce effects etc -> Counterspell etc.
Iconic Creatures: Wizards, Ghosts, maybe Sphinx?


Red
-> many small creatures, dragons, spells that deal damage to players / creatures, conditional buffs
Iconic Creatures: Goblins, Stone Golems, Lizards / Dragons


Green
-> big creatures, stuff that buffs creatures, life gain and graveyard resurrection
Iconic Creatures: Worms, Beasts, Mammoths


White
-> Destroying creatures, removing graveyards, healing creatures and buffing them
Iconic Creatures: Angels, Humans / Knights


Mana-Crystals:
-> there will be 2-Colored and 1-Colored Mana-Crystals -> each Crystal-Deck contains up to 4 of each 2-Color-Mana-Crystal and up to infinitely many 1-Colored-Mana-Crystals

There will be small Crystals, being the 1-colored ones, and big crystals, being utility ones.

-> Wasteland-Complement.
-> Mishra's Workshop Equivalent.



-> Constructed Mana Crystal:

USE: Generate 1.
1: This Mana turns into a Construct creature (Str: 2 Vit: 1) with rush until the end of the turn.
It still is a Mana Crystal.


-> Many cards with Rebuy costs, so that grindy decks can coexist with rushdown aggro and combo.



Targeting vs Choosing:


Whenever a card states Target, you have to choose the target upon attempting a card. The target has to be legal in all regards.



Rarity and Quantity of Cards per deck:


For both Big Mana Crystals and all Spells / Creatures, the maximum amount of copies per card are given by there rarity:

White Rarity Symbol: You can play up to 3 Copies of this card.
Gold Rarity Symbol: You can play up to 2 Copies of this card.
Purple Rarity Symbol: You can play up to 1 copy of this card.

This "mechanic" is supposed to make decks more fair. Purple Rarity cards should be way more powerful on their own, but restricting them to up to 1 copy per decks should keep them in check,
making for a diverse meta since you cannot rely on one card only, which should then also make for a diverse gameplay situation.




Counters:

I think it would be pretty cool to have many ways of modifying creatures:

Flying-, Shield- , Strength-, Poison- , Ice- Counter, just to name a view.

Yes, Tracking will be kinda rough. But we can use differetnly colored dice, I suppose.

Strength: Yellow
Damage: Red
Shield: White
Poison: Purple
Ice: Blue
